TELCODOCS-321v2 QE Updates requested post-merge (#42922)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ipi-install-configuring-host-network-interfaces-in-the-install-config.yaml-file.adoc

During installation, you can set the `networkConfig` configuration setting in the `install-config.yaml` file to configure host network interfaces using NMState.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Host network interface configuration is set during the installation and provisioning process and includes advanced options, such as setting static IPs per host. Before configuring host network interfaces, review the {product-version} 4.10 release notes. 
====

.Prerequisites

* You configured a `PTR` DNS record with a valid hostname for each node with a static IP address.

* You installed the `jq` package.

.Procedure

Optional: Consider testing the `networkConfig` YAML syntax before including it in the `install-config.yaml` file. The installation program will not check the `NMState` YAML syntax.

.. Save the valid `networkConfig` YAML syntax to a file.
.. Run the following command:
+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ nmstatectl gc <yaml-config> 
----
+
[NOTE]
====
Errors in the YAML syntax might result in a failure to apply the network configuration. Maintain the valid YAML syntax when applying changes using Kubernetes NMState after deployment or when expanding the cluster.
====
+

> To use the `networkConfig` configuration setting, create and save an `NMState` configuration as a YAML file, as shown in the following example:

Author: Updated as suggested.

//
// installing_bare_metal_ipi/ipi-install-installation-workflow.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-host-network-interfaces-in-the-install-config.yaml-file_{context}"]
= Optional: Configuring host network interfaces in the `install-config.yaml` file

During installation, you can set the `networkConfig` configuration setting in the `install-config.yaml` file to configure host network interfaces using NMState.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Host network interface configuration is set during the installation and provisioning process and includes advanced options, such as setting static IPs per host. Before configuring host network interfaces, review the {product-version} 4.10 release notes. 
====

.Prerequisites

* You configured a `PTR` DNS record with a valid hostname for each node with a static IP address.

* You installed the `jq` package.

.Procedure

. Optional: Consider saving the `networkConfig` YAML syntax to a file.

> .. Test the `networkConfig` YAML syntax by using the NMState command-line interface. Test the `networkConfig` YAML syntax before including it in the `install-config.yaml` file, because the installation program will not check the NMState YAML syntax. 

Reviewer: This seems redundant.

Author: @awolffredhat thanks for catching that! Here's a possible rewrite. Let me know if this makes more sense:

> .. Test the `networkConfig` YAML syntax before including it in the `install-config.yaml` file. The installation program will not check the NMState YAML syntax.
> 
> .. Run the following command on the NMState command-line interface:

Reviewer: Yes. This does make more sense. thanks.

//
// installing_bare_metal_ipi/ipi-install-installation-workflow.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-host-network-interfaces-in-the-install-config.yaml-file_{context}"]
= (Optional) Configuring host network interfaces in the `install-config.yaml` file

During installation, you can set the `networkConfig` configuration setting in the `install-config.yaml` file to configure host network interfaces using NMState.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Host network interface configuration is set during the installation and provisioning process and includes advanced options, such as setting static IPs per host. Before configuring host network interfaces, review the OpenShift Container Platform 4.10 release notes. 
====

.Prerequisites

. For each node being configured with a static IP, you must configure a DNS PTR record containing a valid host name including the specific IP associated with that node.

.Procedure

. (Optional) Consider saving the `networkConfig` YAML syntax to a file.

.. Test it using the NMState command line interface. Do this before including it in the `install-config.yaml` file, because the installation program will not check the NMState YAML syntax. 

> .. Execute `nmstatectl gc <yaml-config>` to test the syntax. Errors in the YAML syntax might result in a failure to apply the network configuration. 

Reviewer 2: ISG:
**execute** _verb_
Use only if a simpler term, such as "run", "issue", "start", or "enter" is inappropriate.

Also, the command should be separated into a separate code block.

> .. Maintain the valid YAML syntax when applying changes using Kubernetes NMState after deployment or when expanding the cluster.

Reviewer 2: Is this a task? Or a thing they need to be mindful of? If they need to do something for this to happen, it should be stated. Otherwise, it probably makes more sense as a note or prerequisite.

> . To use the `networkConfig` configuration setting, you must provide an NMState YAML configuration. In the following example, the user name is `user` and the password is `password`:

Reviewer 2: What must you do to provide the config? "Create and save an NMState configuration as a YAML file, as shown in the following example"?

+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
  hosts:
        - name: openshift-master-0
          role: master
          bmc:

>             address: redfish+http://_<out-of-band-ip>_/redfish/v1/Systems/

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#directory-names
```suggestion
            address: redfish+http://_<out_of_band_ip>_/redfish/v1/Systems/
```

            username: _<user>_
            password: _<password>_
            disableCertificateVerification: null
          bootMACAddress: _<NIC1_mac_address>_
          bootMode: UEFI
          rootDeviceHints:
            deviceName: "/dev/sda"
          networkConfig: <1>
            interfaces:
            - name: _<NIC1_name>_
              type: ethernet
              state: up
              ipv4:
                address:
                - ip: "_<IP_address>_"
                  prefix-length: 24
                enabled: true
            dns-resolver:
              config:
                server:
                - _<DNS_IP_address>_
            routes:
              config:
              - destination: 0.0.0.0/0
                next-hop-address: _<IP_address>_
                next-hop-interface: _<NIC1_name>_
----
<1> Add NMState YAML syntax to configure host interfaces.
+

> When configuring static IP addresses, be aware that while the cluster's nodes can be assigned a static IP address as part of the `install-config` file, the bootstrap VM cannot. In the case of configuring the bootstrap VM without a DHCP server, you will need to configure it using ignition, per the following example:

Reviewer 2: **per** _preposition_
Do not use to mean "according to". Use a phrase such as "according to", "as", or "as in".

```suggestion
When configuring static IP addresses, be aware that while the cluster's nodes can be assigned a static IP address as part of the `install-config` file, the bootstrap VM cannot be assigned a static IP address. In the case of configuring the bootstrap VM without a DHCP server, you must configure it using Ignition, as shown in the following example:
```

//
// installing_bare_metal_ipi/ipi-install-installation-workflow.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-host-network-interfaces-in-the-install-config.yaml-file_{context}"]

> = Optional: Configuring host network interfaces in the `install-config.yaml` file

Reviewer 3: Avoid backticks in section headings ([repo guideline](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#assemblymodule-titles-and-section-headings)), though it looks like in this case this would also affect a number of existing section titles throughout the assembly. :shrug:

During installation, you can set the `networkConfig` configuration setting in the `install-config.yaml` file to configure host network interfaces using NMState.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Host network interface configuration is set during the installation and provisioning process and includes advanced options, such as setting static IPs per host. Before configuring host network interfaces, review the {product-version} 4.10 release notes. 
====

.Prerequisites

* For each node being configured with a static IP, you must configure a `PTR` record containing a valid host name including the specific IP associated with that node.

.Procedure

. Optional: Consider saving the `networkConfig` YAML syntax to a file.

.. Test the `networkConfig` YAML syntax by using the NMState command-line interface. Test the `networkConfig` YAML syntax before including it in the `install-config.yaml` file, because the installation program will not check the NMState YAML syntax. 

.. Test the syntax by running the following command:
+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----

> $ nmstatectl gc `<yaml-config>` 

Reviewer 3: Should there be backticks around `<yaml-config>` here in the command?

----

[NOTE]
====
Errors in the YAML syntax might result in a failure to apply the network configuration. Maintain the valid YAML syntax when applying changes using Kubernetes NMState after deployment or when expanding the cluster.
====

> . To use the `networkConfig` configuration setting, create and save an NMState configuration as a YAML file, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: Below is a sample input. Note that the first secret is the network config data, and the last line is the reference to the secret within the bmh item.
The command would be the same 'create -f' used any time we create a new bmh
correct output would tell us that the two secrets and the bmh were created successfully. (I can try to add actual output later)

apiVersion: v1
 kind: Secret
 metadata:
 name: openshift-worker-2-network
 type: Opaque
 stringData:
 nmstate: |
  routes:
   config:
   - destination: 0.0.0.0/0
    next-hop-address: 192.168.123.1
    next-hop-interface: enp0s4
  dns-resolver:
   config:
    server:
    - 192.168.123.1
  interfaces:
  - name: enp0s4
   state: up
   ipv4:
    address:
    - ip: 192.168.123.11
     prefix-length: 24
    enabled: true
    dhcp: false
 ---
 apiVersion: v1
 kind: Secret
 metadata:
 name: openshift-worker-2-bmc-secret
 namespace: openshift-machine-api
 type: Opaque
 data:
 username: YWRtaW4=
 password: YWRtaW4=
 ---
 apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
 kind: BareMetalHost
 metadata:
 name: openshift-worker-0-2
 namespace: openshift-machine-api
 spec:
 online: True
 bmc:
  address: redfish://192.168.123.1:8000/redfish/v1/Systems/3ce31797-a721-4600-80c0-3f2a9fff8aaa
  credentialsName: openshift-worker-2-bmc-secret
  disableCertificateVerification: True
  username: admin
  password: admin
 bootMACAddress: 52:54:00:46:bc:fc
 rootDeviceHints:
  deviceName: /dev/sda
 preprovisioningNetworkDataName: openshift-worker-2-network

> . To use the `networkConfig` configuration setting, create and save an NMState configuration as a YAML file, as shown in the following example:

Author: Updated as suggested.

+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
  hosts:
        - name: openshift-master-0
          role: master
          bmc:

>             address: redfish+http://_<out_of_band_ip>_/redfish/v1/Systems/

Reviewer 3: (For this spot and all of the similarly-added underscores throughout)

If you're wanting these to be italicized (per [RH SSG](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#user-replaced-values)), you'll need to add `[subs="+quotes"]` to the block as well, otherwise it will render the underscores verbatim in the built version. However, while that's the general CCS guideline, in the openshift-docs repo we have yet to adopt that guideline, so we haven't been italicizing user-replaced values.

          bootMACAddress: _<NIC1_mac_address>_
          bootMode: UEFI
          rootDeviceHints:
            deviceName: "/dev/sda"
          networkConfig: <1>
            interfaces:
            - name: _<NIC1_name>_
              type: ethernet
              state: up
              ipv4:
                address:
                - ip: "_<IP_address>_"
                  prefix-length: 24
                enabled: true
            dns-resolver:
              config:
                server:
                - _<DNS_IP_address>_
            routes:
              config:
              - destination: 0.0.0.0/0
                next-hop-address: _<IP_address>_
                next-hop-interface: _<NIC1_name>_
----
<1> Add NMState YAML syntax to configure host interfaces.
+
When configuring static IP addresses, be aware that while the cluster's nodes can be assigned a static IP address as part of the `install-config` file, the bootstrap VM cannot be assigned a static IP address. In the case of deploying {product-title}, you must configure it using Ignition, as shown in the following example:

. Create a NetworkManager `keyFile` for the external NIC of the boostrap VM:
+

> .Example NetworkManager keyFile

Reviewer 3: You can, however, markup words in a block title like this, e.g., `keyFile`.

[source,text]
----
  BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG="[connection]
  type=ethernet
  interface-name=ens3
  [ethernet]
  [ipv4]
  method=manual
  addresses=${BOOTSTRAP_IP}/${BOOTSTRAP_PREFIX}
  gateway=${PROVISIONING_HOST_EXTERNAL_IP}
  dns=${PROVISIONING_HOST_EXTERNAL_IP}"
----
+
. Update the generated `bootstrap.ign` file with the following changes:
+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat > bootstrap_network_config.ign << EOF
      {
        "path": "/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/ens3.nmconnection",
        "mode": 384,
        "contents": {
        "source": "data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,$(echo "${BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG}" | base64 -w 0)"
        }
      }

>   EOF

Reviewer 3: Are the lines that follow this `EOF` here supposed to be additional individual commands to be entered, or are they part of the bootstrap file?

Reviewer: They are additional individual commands.

Reviewer: This should be four commands, but:
1. They are divided wrong here. The third command should be starting with jq
2. there is a confusion here between the 'tmp.sh' sript, which needs to be run, and the bootstrap.ign file, which is re-created by the 'jq' command. (So, basically, all of the file names should stay the same as the ones provided by Steve, except tmp.sh, which can be changed to something more generic)

Author: Updated as suggested.

// installing_bare_metal_ipi/ipi-install-installation-workflow.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-host-network-interfaces-in-the-install-config.yaml-file_{context}"]
= Optional: Configuring host network interfaces in the `install-config.yaml` file

During installation, you can set the `networkConfig` configuration setting in the `install-config.yaml` file to configure host network interfaces using NMState.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Host network interface configuration is set during the installation and provisioning process and includes advanced options such as setting static IPs per host. Before configuring host network interfaces, review the {product-title} 4.10 release notes.
====

.Prerequisites

* Configure a `PTR` DNS record with a valid hostname for each node with a static IP address.

* Install the `jq` package.

.Procedure

. Save the valid `networkConfig` YAML syntax to a file.
. Generate the configuration file for the `networkConfig` YAML file. Run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ nmstatectl gc <networkConfig-configuration-file> 
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> Consider testing the `networkConfig` YAML syntax before including it in the `install-config.yaml` file. Errors in the YAML syntax might result in a failure to apply the network configuration. Maintain the valid YAML syntax when applying changes using Kubernetes NMState after deployment or when expanding the cluster.

Reviewer: Looks like this note was moved a bit too far down. To implement this suggestion, the user would have to run the 'nmstatectl' command that's currently in line 29.

Reviewer: All of the instructions can be moved below the example listed below.

// installing_bare_metal_ipi/ipi-install-installation-workflow.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-host-network-interfaces-in-the-install-config.yaml-file_{context}"]
= Optional: Configuring host network interfaces in the `install-config.yaml` file

During installation, you can set the `networkConfig` configuration setting in the `install-config.yaml` file to configure host network interfaces using NMState.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Host network interface configuration is set during the installation and provisioning process and includes advanced options, such as setting static IPs per host. Before configuring host network interfaces, review the {product-version} 4.10 release notes. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Host network interface configuration is set during the installation and provisioning process and includes advanced options such as setting static IPs per host. Before configuring host network interfaces, review the {product-title} 4.10 release notes. 
```

====

.Prerequisites

> * You configured a `PTR` DNS record with a valid hostname for each node with a static IP address.

Reviewer 4: Nit: Use an active present tense sentence construction for prerequisites.

 ```suggestion
* Configure a `PTR` DNS record with a valid hostname for each node with a static IP address.
```

> * You installed the `jq` package.

Reviewer 4: Also FYI - the OCP style guide recommends against procedures that use `jq`.

```suggestion
* Install the `jq` package.
```

.Procedure

> Optional: Consider testing the `networkConfig` YAML syntax before including it in the `install-config.yaml` file. The installation program will not check the `NMState` YAML syntax.

Reviewer 4: Start with a `.`  - step 1.

> Optional: Consider testing the `networkConfig` YAML syntax before including it in the `install-config.yaml` file. The installation program will not check the `NMState` YAML syntax.

Reviewer 4: This should be the first step. Single dot `.` only.

```suggestion
. Optional: Consider testing the `networkConfig` YAML syntax before including it in the `install-config.yaml` file. The installation program will not check the `NMState` YAML syntax.
```

> .. Save the valid `networkConfig` YAML syntax to a file.

Reviewer 4: These should be first order steps. single dot `.` only.

> .. Save the valid `networkConfig` YAML syntax to a file.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Save the valid `networkConfig` YAML syntax to a file.
```

> .. Run the following command:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Generate the configuration file for the `networkConfig` YAML file. Run the following command:
```

Reviewer: The command below doesn't generate the configuration file. it is meant for testing the configuration (as suggested in like 24)

+

> .Example

Reviewer 4: You don't need titles for command blocks. Use `+` to align the command with the step block.

```suggestion
+
```

[source,terminal]
----

> $ nmstatectl gc <yaml-config> 

Reviewer 4: I'm confused about `<yaml-config>` where does this come from?

----
+
[NOTE]
====

> Errors in the YAML syntax might result in a failure to apply the network configuration. Maintain the valid YAML syntax when applying changes using Kubernetes NMState after deployment or when expanding the cluster.

Reviewer 4: Updated 

```suggestion
Consider testing the `networkConfig` YAML syntax before including it in the `install-config.yaml` file. Errors in the YAML syntax might result in a failure to apply the network configuration. Maintain the valid YAML syntax when applying changes using Kubernetes NMState after deployment or when expanding the cluster.
```

====
+
To use the `networkConfig` configuration setting, create and save the `NMState` configuration within `install-config.yaml`, as shown in the following example:
+

> .Example

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
+
```

// installing_bare_metal_ipi/ipi-install-installation-workflow.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-host-network-interfaces-in-the-install-config.yaml-file_{context}"]
= Optional: Configuring host network interfaces in the `install-config.yaml` file

During installation, you can set the `networkConfig` configuration setting in the `install-config.yaml` file to configure host network interfaces using NMState.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Host network interface configuration is set during the installation and provisioning process and includes advanced options, such as setting static IPs per host. Before configuring host network interfaces, review the {product-version} 4.10 release notes. 
====

.Prerequisites

* You configured a `PTR` DNS record with a valid hostname for each node with a static IP address.

* You installed the `jq` package.

.Procedure

> . Optional: Consider saving the `networkConfig` YAML syntax to a file.

Reviewer: I don't think it's clear that the purpose of saving the yaml is for checking the syntax.
I would say something like:
"consdider testing the networkConfig YAML syntax before including it in the install-config.yaml file. The installation program will not check the NMState YAML syntax.
1. save the `networkConfig` YAML syntax to a file.
2. Run the following command

Author: Updated as suggested.

.. Test the networkConfig YAML syntax before including it in the `install-config.yaml` file. The installation program will not check the NMState YAML syntax.

.. Run the following command on the NMState command-line interface:
+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ nmstatectl gc <yaml-config> 
----

[NOTE]
====
Errors in the YAML syntax might result in a failure to apply the network configuration. Maintain the valid YAML syntax when applying changes using Kubernetes NMState after deployment or when expanding the cluster.
====

> . To use the `networkConfig` configuration setting, create and save an NMState configuration as a YAML file, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: The hosts section is part of install-config.yaml. I'm not sure that's clear here.

Author: Updated as suggested.

----
<1> Add NMState YAML syntax to configure host interfaces.

> During node configuration, ensure you are creating PTR records, so that the nodes are not displayed as `localhost`.

Reviewer 5: Depends on two questions:

1. Are PTR records used outside the context of DNS?

2. Would there be any major confusion for customers if we did not include "DNS"?

> During node configuration, ensure you are creating PTR records, so that the nodes are not displayed as `localhost`.

Reviewer: I don't know the answer to those questions.

> During node configuration, ensure you are creating PTR records, so that the nodes are not displayed as `localhost`.

Reviewer 6: IMHO it's not even obvious what a "PTR record" _is_ without including the context that it's a type of DNS record.

----
<1> Add NMState YAML syntax to configure host interfaces.

> During node configuration, ensure you are creating PTR records, so that the nodes are not displayed as `localhost`.

Reviewer 7: I think this line should be emphasized more, as this is an essential required configuration from the client's side.
Also maybe not mention specifically that the nodes will be named localhost, just that it is essential for correct configuration of hostname.

----
<1> Add NMState YAML syntax to configure host interfaces.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> During node configuration, you must create PTR records. PTR records are required for valid host name configuration.

Reviewer 7: I feel you can be even more specific:
you must create PTR records -> "For each node being configured with a static IP, you must configure a DNS PTR record containing a valid hostname and the specific IP associated with that node."

> During node configuration, you must create PTR records. PTR records are required for valid host name configuration.

Reviewer 6: > I think DNS pointer record is correct given the context, but please verify.

I disagree here. The DNS record type is literally `PTR`. Hypothetically, if the user had to create a `AAAA` record I don't think we'd be helping them by calling it an "address address address address record".

> During node configuration, you must create PTR records. PTR records are required for valid host name configuration.

Reviewer 2: > The DNS record type is literally `PTR`.

That makes sense. If PTR is the literal value, then we should wrap it in backticks. @ktothill see our contrib guide for markup ref: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#quick-markup-reference

====

[TIP]
====

> Consider saving the `networkConfig` YAML syntax to a file and testing it using the NMState command line interface before including it in the `install-config.yaml` file, because the installation program will not check the NMState YAML syntax. Execute `nmstatectl gc <yaml-config>` to test the syntax. Errors in the YAML syntax might result in a failure to apply the network configuration. Additionally, maintaining the validated YAML syntax is useful when applying changes using Kubernetes NMState after deployment or when expanding the cluster.

Reviewer 2: +1 to making this a procedure.

====

When configuring static IP addresses, be aware that while the cluster's nodes can be assigned a static IP address as part of the `install-config` file, the bootstrap VM cannot. In the case of configuring the bootstrap VM without a DHCP server, you will need to configure it using ignition, per the following example:

. Create a NetworkManager keyfile for the external NIC of the boostrap VM:

.Example

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 6: Yeah, this is just text.

----
  BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG="[connection]
  type=ethernet

>   interface-name=ens3

Reviewer 6: The bootstrap VM is created by the installer, so it is always `ens3` in practice.
It _is_ different in different environments - on ARM64 architectures it's another interface, but we don't support that yet.

                next-hop-interface: <NIC1_name>
----
<1> Add NMState YAML syntax to configure host interfaces.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Once deployed, you cannot modify the `networkConfig` configuration setting of `install-config.yaml` file to make changes to the host network interface. Use the Kubernetes NMState Operator to make changes to the host network interface after deployment.
====
+

> In the case of deploying {product-title} without a DHCP server on bare-metal network, use the following procedure to configure a static IP address for the bootstrap VM using Ignition:

Reviewer: This is no longer necessary in the later 4.11 builds. 
https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2048600

                next-hop-interface: <NIC1_name>
----
<1> Add NMState YAML syntax to configure host interfaces.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Once deployed, you cannot modify the `networkConfig` configuration setting of `install-config.yaml` file to make changes to the host network interface. Use the Kubernetes NMState Operator to make changes to the host network interface after deployment.
====
+

> In the case of deploying {product-title} without a DHCP server on bare metal network, use the following procedure to configure a static IP address for the bootstrap VM using Ignition:

Reviewer 4: s/bare metal/bare-metal https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#bare-metal-adj

+

> . Create `bootstrap_config.sh` file:

Reviewer 4: missing article

```suggestion
. Create the `bootstrap_config.sh` file:
```

+

> .Example

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
+
```

[source,terminal]
----

> $ cat bootstrap_config.sh

Reviewer 4: Does this command actually work? It looks wrong to me. Can you verify with QE/Engineering

Reviewer: 'cat' is a command that displays the content of the file. Sometimes in QE we use it to show what the contents should be once the file is created. 
I am assuming there is a standard way to instruct what contents should be put into a file. You can use the standard instructions.

Reviewer 4: @awolffredhat I suggested breaking this up into two pieces: 

```
. Create the `bootstrap_config.sh` file with the following content:
+
[source,cmd]
----
#!/bin/bash
BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG="[connection]
type=ethernet
interface-name=ens3
[ethernet]
[ipv4]
method=manual
addresses=192.168.123.101/24
gateway=192.168.123.1
dns=192.168.123.1"
----

. Create the `bootstrap_network_config.ign` file with the following content:
+
[source,text]
----
{
  "path": "/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/ens3.nmconnection",
  "mode": 384,
  "contents": {
    "source": "data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,$(echo "${BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG}" | base64 -w 0)"
  }
}
----
```

Reviewer: They need to be one script which creates the file bootstrap_network_config.ign. (note the replacement of BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG)
There may be other ways to do this but this is the way that was tested.

Reviewer 4: Ah OK. So this is the complete `bootstrap_config.sh` script?  
```
#!/bin/bash
BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG="[connection]
type=ethernet
interface-name=ens3
[ethernet]
[ipv4]
method=manual
addresses=192.168.123.101/24
gateway=192.168.123.1
dns=192.168.123.1"
cat > bootstrap_network_config.ign << EOF
{
  "path": "/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/ens3.nmconnection",
  "mode": 384,
  "contents": {
    "source": "data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,$(echo "${BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG}" | base64 -w 0)"
  }
}
EOF
```

Reviewer: Correct.

#!/bin/bash
BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG="[connection]
type=ethernet
interface-name=ens3
[ethernet]
[ipv4]
method=manual
addresses=192.168.123.101/24
gateway=192.168.123.1
dns=192.168.123.1"
cat > bootstrap_network_config.ign << EOF
{
  "path": "/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/ens3.nmconnection",
  "mode": 384,
  "contents": {
    "source": "data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,$(echo "${BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG}" | base64 -w 0)"
  }
}
EOF
----
+
. Run `bootstrap_config.sh` to create the `json` configuration file:
+

> .Example

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
+
```

[source,terminal]
----
$ ./bootstrap_config.sh
----
+
. Optional: Create a backup of the original `bootstrap.ign` file:
+

> .Example

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
+
```

[source,terminal]
----
$ mv clusterconfigs/bootstrap.ign clusterconfigs/bootstrap.ign.orig
----
+
. Inject the Ignition file into the configuration:
+

> .Example

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
+
```

                next-hop-interface: <NIC1_name>
----
<1> Add NMState YAML syntax to configure host interfaces.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Once deployed, you cannot modify the `networkConfig` configuration setting of `install-config.yaml` file to make changes to the host network interface. Use the Kubernetes NMState Operator to make changes to the host network interface after deployment.
====
+

> In the case of deploying {product-title} without a DHCP server on the baremetal network, use the following procedure to configure a static IP address for the bootstrap VM using Ignition:

Reviewer 8: bare metal (two words) unless it's meant to be `baremetal` in backticks

Author: Updated as suggested.

> . Create `bootstrap_config.sh` file:

Reviewer: The numbering here doesn't seem correct. This line shows up as bullet #2. I think it should start a new sequence.

+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat bootstrap_config.sh
#!/bin/bash
BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG="[connection]
type=ethernet
interface-name=ens3
[ethernet]
[ipv4]
method=manual
addresses=192.168.123.101/24
gateway=192.168.123.1
dns=192.168.123.1"
cat > bootstrap_network_config.ign << EOF
{
  "path": "/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/ens3.nmconnection",
  "mode": 384,
  "contents": {
    "source": "data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,$(echo "${BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG}" | base64 -w 0)"
  }
}
EOF
----
+
. Run `bootstrap_config.sh` to create the `json` configuration file:
+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ ./bootstrap_config.sh
----
+

> . Insert the json configuration file into the Ignition file:

Reviewer: "Insert the json config" and "Inject the ignition file" are basically synonymous and both occur in the jq command in line 134.
The 'mv' command in line 126 is a backup of the original bootstrap file and is an optional step.

Author: Updated as suggested.

+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ mv clusterconfigs/bootstrap.ign clusterconfigs/bootstrap.ign.orig
----
+
. Inject the Ignition file into the configuration:
+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ jq '.storage.files += $input' clusterconfigs/bootstrap.ign.orig --slurpfile input bootstrap_network_config.ign (output of bootstrap_config.sh) > clusterconfigs/bootstrap.ign
----
+

> . Create the cluster using the new `bootstrap.ign` file:

Reviewer: (https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/42922/files#r862445083)
I still think this point probably shouldn't be here, since these are instructions for setting up install-config, not for running the deployment itself.

Author: Updated as suggested.

                next-hop-interface: <NIC1_name>
----
<1> Add NMState YAML syntax to configure host interfaces.
+

> To set network configuration settings for the new node, create and save an NMState configuration as a Secret. The Secret is referenced within the BareMetalHost as `preprovisioningNetworkDataName`, as shown in the following example:

Author: It sounds like you’re suggesting that lines 24-38 be moved from `modules/ipi-install-configuring-host-network-interfaces-in-the-install-config.yaml-file.adoc`  to `modules/ipi-install-provisioning-the-bare-metal-node.adoc`, which would update [PR 42991](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/42991) (TELCODOCS-324)?

> To set network configuration settings for the new node, create and save an NMState configuration as a Secret. The Secret is referenced within the BareMetalHost as `preprovisioningNetworkDataName`, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer 6: No, I'm suggesting lines 81-139 need to move there.

> To set network configuration settings for the new node, create and save an NMState configuration as a Secret. The Secret is referenced within the BareMetalHost as `preprovisioningNetworkDataName`, as shown in the following example:

Author: Ah ok. Happy to make that change.

+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
apiVersion: v1
 kind: Secret
 metadata:

>  name: openshift-worker-2-network

Reviewer 6: indentation is messed up in this whole example

. Create `tmp.sh` file:
+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat tmp.sh
#!/bin/bash
BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG="[connection]
type=ethernet
interface-name=ens3
[ethernet]
[ipv4]
method=manual
addresses=192.168.123.101/24
gateway=192.168.123.1
dns=192.168.123.1"
cat > bootstrap_network_config.ign << EOF
{
  "path": "/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/ens3.nmconnection",
  "mode": 384,
  "contents": {
    "source": "data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,$(echo "${BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG}" | base64 -w 0)"
  }
}
EOF
----
+
. Run tmp.sh to create json configuration file:
+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ ./tmp.sh
----
+
. Insert the json configuration file into the Ignition file:
+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ mv clusterconfigs/bootstrap.ign clusterconfigs/bootstrap.ign.orig
----
+
. Inject the Ignition file into the configuration:
+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ jq '.storage.files += $input' clusterconfigs/bootstrap.ign.orig --slurpfile input bootstrap_network_config.ign (output of tmp.sh) > clusterconfigs/bootstrap.ign
----
+

> . Create the cluster using the new `bootstrap.ign` file:

Reviewer: This question is still relevant to the 'create the cluster' step.

                next-hop-interface: <NIC1_name>
----
<1> Add NMState YAML syntax to configure host interfaces.
+
[NOTE]
====

> When configuring static IP addresses, be aware that while the cluster's nodes can be assigned a static IP address as part of the `install-config` file, the bootstrap VM cannot be assigned a static IP address using the 'install-config' file. 

Reviewer: Do we need this note when there are also instructions below to assign a static ip for the bootstrap vm?

Author: @awolffredhat no, it can be removed if we're providing instructions later in the doc.

====

In the case of deploying {product-title} without a DHCP server on the baremetal network, use the following procedure to configure a static IP address for the bootstrap VM using Ignition:

. Create `bootstrap_config.sh` file:
+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat bootstrap_config.sh
#!/bin/bash
BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG="[connection]
type=ethernet
interface-name=ens3
[ethernet]
[ipv4]
method=manual
addresses=192.168.123.101/24
gateway=192.168.123.1
dns=192.168.123.1"
cat > bootstrap_network_config.ign << EOF
{
  "path": "/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/ens3.nmconnection",
  "mode": 384,
  "contents": {
    "source": "data:text/plain;charset=utf-8;base64,$(echo "${BOOTSTRAP_CONFIG}" | base64 -w 0)"
  }
}
EOF
----
+
. Run `bootstrap_config.sh` to create the `json` configuration file:
+
.Example
[source,terminal]
----
$ ./bootstrap_config.sh
----

> +

Reviewer: What happened to the jq step, where the json created by the bootstrap_config script is injected into the ignition file?

Author: Updated as suggested.
